Add wiki pages for identity v1.1 (#1414)
iotaledger/iota-wiki: docs/build/identity.rs/1.1/docs/how-tos/verifiable-credentials/selective-disclosure.mdx

---
sidebar_label: Selective Disclosure
description: Explain VC with selective disclosure.
image: /img/Identity_icon.png
keywords:
  - verifiable
  - credentials
  - SD-JWT
  - Disclosure
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Selective Disclosure (SD-JWT)

> Holders of verifiable credentials may prefer not to disclose all the information contained within it to the verifier. Instead, they may opt to share only a specific subset of the properties included in the VC. The identity library implements the [IETF Specifications](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt-07.html) which outlines a mechanism to enable the selective disclosure of individual properties within the JSON object of JWT claims.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Holders of verifiable credentials may prefer not to disclose all the information contained within the credential to a verifier. Instead, they may opt to only share a specific subset of the properties included in the VC. The identity library implements the [IETF Specifications](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt-07.html) which outlines a mechanism to enable the selective disclosure of individual properties within the JSON object of JWT claims.
```

## Concept

#### Issuance ✍️

> During the issuance process, the issuer replaces a subset of the JWT claims with digests of their salted values and signs the JWT. Next, the signed JWT alongside with the plain text disclosures and the salt used the for digest creation are sent to the holder. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the issuance process, the issuer replaces a subset of the fields contained in a credential with digests of their salted values and creates a signed JWT. Next, JWT alongside the plain text disclosures and the salt used the for digest creation are sent to the holder. 
```

#### Presentation 📃

> At this stage, the holder has the flexibility to selectively choose which values to disclose to the verifier. The chosen values are sent in plain text with the JWT that contains the digests to the verifier. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this stage, the holder has the flexibility to selectively choose which fields to disclose to the verifier. The chosen disclosures are sent in plain text together with the JWT that contains the digests to the verifier. 
```

        "locality": "Maxstadt",
        "postal_code": "12344",
        "street_address": "Weidenstraße 22"
      },
      "name": "Alice"
    },
    "type": [
      "VerifiableCredential",
      "AddressCredential"
    ]
  }
} 

```

The issuer makes the values of "locality", "postal_code", "street_address" selectively disclosable, giving the holder the freedom to select what details of the address to be disclosed and presented.

```json
{
  "_sd_alg": "sha-256",
  "iss": "did:iota:tst:0x899d07a766f93c2af1a19a3f4583ad338fc94c5d84b6afcadf49b197e1cb693e",
  "jti": "https://example.com/credentials/3732",
  "nbf": 1705925652,
  "sub": "did:iota:tst:0x6c045e1f658197b432cfc7c66350b8781dca50f820e9de0fcdf0029b4b384355",
  "vc": {
    "@context": "https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1",
    "credentialSubject": {
      "address": {
        "_sd": [
          "8Dai0-GMZgkzmdryGzjYufUaRFkiNWzVsJJdWucwu84",
          "jemTNaG_wiHauwmwWiWREsirAlr91qugPds4MA8e2xo",
          "iakC9Dfe2r9fGnOaAr_pGg1b7CwITBjcwE7-O7WlMnY"
        ],
        "country": "DE"
      },
      "name": "Alice"
    },
    "type": [
      "VerifiableCredential",
      "AddressCredential"
    ]
  }
}
```

:::note

> The digests are included in the `_sd` property in `address`. This allows both keys and values to be concealed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The digests are contained in the `_sd` property in `address`. This allows both keys and values to be concealed.
```

:::

> For further details, see the [Example](#full-example-code) below and the [sd-jwt-payload crate](https://github.com/iotaledger/sd-jwt-payload).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For further details, see the [example](#full-example-code) below and the [sd-jwt-payload crate](https://github.com/iotaledger/sd-jwt-payload).
```

> ## Key Binding JWT

Reviewer: I feel there is some more explanation/elaboration on the key binding needed

Reviewer: @abdulmth could you extend on the Key Binding concept a bid?

> When a verifier receives an SD-JWT, it could be important to verify if the identity of the presenter matches the holder of the Credential. For that a Key binding JWT can be used, in which the holder can verify the possession of the private key that corresponds with his public key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a verifier receives an SD-JWT, it may be desirable to verify that the identity of the presenter matches the holder of the Credential. For that purpose a Key Binding JWT can be used, in which the holder can proof the possession of the private key that corresponds with his public key.
```

## Concept

#### Issuance ✍️
During the issuance process, the issuer replaces a subset of the fields contained in a credential with digests of their salted values and creates a signed JWT. Next, JWT alongside the plain text disclosures and the salt used the for digest creation are sent to the holder. 

#### Presentation 📃
At this stage, the holder has the flexibility to selectively choose which fields to disclose to the verifier. The chosen disclosures are sent in plain text together with the JWT that contains the digests to the verifier. 

:::note
Only values replaced by digests through the issuer can be selectively disclosed. The holder **can not** conceal values provided in plain text in the JWT claims.
:::

#### Validation 🔬

> With these values and a valid signature, the verifier is able to reconstruct a verified VC that exclusively contains the information the holder intended to disclose.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With these values and a valid signature, the verifier is able to reconstruct a Verified Credential (VC) that exclusively contains the information the holder intended to disclose.
```

> ## How it works

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How It Works
```

> As the SD JWT remains a valid JWT, giving the following JWT claim of an address credential in accordance with the [VC Data Model v1.1](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/#json-web-token):

Reviewer 2: Could you rephrase this?

> As the SD JWT remains a valid JWT, giving the following JWT claim of an address credential in accordance with the [VC Data Model v1.1](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/#json-web-token):

Reviewer: typo: `accordance`

> As the SD JWT remains a valid JWT, giving the following JWT claim of an address credential in accordance with the [VC Data Model v1.1](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/#json-web-token):

Author: fixed

> As the SD JWT remains a valid JWT, giving the following JWT claim of an address credential in accordance with the [VC Data Model v1.1](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/#json-web-token):

Reviewer: @lucas-tortora what do you think?

> As the SD JWT remains a valid JWT, giving the following JWT claim of an address credential in accordance with the [VC Data Model v1.1](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/#json-web-token):

Reviewer 2: How about:
```suggestion
The following JWT represents an address credential that was issued to Alice in accordance with the [VC Data Model v1.1](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/#json-web-token):
```
If I understood correctly, the following JSON is a plain text VC issued to Alice. In the next paragraph, you describe how she can disclose only a subset of it to keep her data as her own. Right?

> As the SD JWT remains a valid JWT, giving the following JWT claim of an address credential in accordance with the [VC Data Model v1.1](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/#json-web-token):

Author: No, this is a part of the issuance step. The provided JSON are the JWT **claims** these will be made selectively disclosable as by the next step, and then will be encoded and signed as a JWT. I didn't add this information here because a previous knowledge of JWT is required, hence the sentence "As the SD JWT remains a valid JWT"

> As the SD JWT remains a valid JWT, giving the following JWT claim of an address credential in accordance with the [VC Data Model v1.1](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/#json-web-token):

Reviewer: Maybe
```suggestion
A SD JWT can be constructed from the following JWT claim of an address credential in accordance with the [VC Data Model v1.1](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/#json-web-token):
```

```json
{
  "iss": "did:iota:tst:0x899d07a766f93c2af1a19a3f4583ad338fc94c5d84b6afcadf49b197e1cb693e",
  "jti": "https://example.com/credentials/3732",
  "nbf": 1705925652,
  "sub": "did:iota:tst:0x6c045e1f658197b432cfc7c66350b8781dca50f820e9de0fcdf0029b4b384355",
  "vc": {
    "@context": "https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1",
    "credentialSubject": {
      "address": {
        "country": "DE",
        "locality": "Maxstadt",
        "postal_code": "12344",
        "street_address": "Weidenstraße 22"
      },
      "name": "Alice"
    },
    "type": [
      "VerifiableCredential",
      "AddressCredential"
    ]
  }
} 

```

> The issuer makes the values of "locality", "postal_code", "street_address" selectively disclosable, giving the holder the freedom to select what details of the address to be disclosed and presented.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The issuer makes the values of "locality", "postal_code", and "street_address" selectively disclosable, giving the holder the freedom to select what details of the address to be disclosed and presented.
```

  "jti": "https://example.com/credentials/3732",
  "nbf": 1705925652,
  "sub": "did:iota:tst:0x6c045e1f658197b432cfc7c66350b8781dca50f820e9de0fcdf0029b4b384355",
  "vc": {
    "@context": "https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1",
    "credentialSubject": {
      "address": {
        "_sd": [
          "8Dai0-GMZgkzmdryGzjYufUaRFkiNWzVsJJdWucwu84",
          "jemTNaG_wiHauwmwWiWREsirAlr91qugPds4MA8e2xo",
          "iakC9Dfe2r9fGnOaAr_pGg1b7CwITBjcwE7-O7WlMnY"
        ],
        "country": "DE"
      },
      "name": "Alice"
    },
    "type": [
      "VerifiableCredential",
      "AddressCredential"
    ]
  }
}
```

:::note
The digests are contained in the `_sd` property in `address`. This allows both keys and values to be concealed.
:::

For further details, see the [example](#full-example-code) below and the [sd-jwt-payload crate](https://github.com/iotaledger/sd-jwt-payload).

## Presentation format

The SD-JWT is presented in the following [format](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt-07.html#section-5):

> `<Issuer-signed JWT>~<Disclosure 1>~<Disclosure 2>~...~<Disclosure N>~<optional KB-JWT>`

## Key Binding JWT

> When a verifier receives an SD-JWT, it may be desirable to verify that the identity of the presenter matches the holder of the Credential. For that purpose a [Key Binding JWT (KB-JWT)](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt-07.html#section-4.3) can be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a verifier receives an SD-JWT, it may be desirable to verify that the presenter's identity matches the holder of the Credential. For that purpose, a [Key Binding JWT (KB-JWT)](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt-07.html#section-4.3) can be used.
```

- The verifier sends a nonce to the holder.

> - The holder creates a JWT containing the nonce and the digest of issuer-signed JWT and the disclosures 1→N.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The holder creates a JWT containing the nonce and the digest of the issuer-signed JWT and the disclosures 1→N.
```

- The holder sends the KB-JWT to the verifier as a part of the presentation. 

> - By verifying the KB-JWT, the verifier ensures the identity of the holder, the integrity of the data, the freshness of the signature and the intended audience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- By verifying the KB-JWT, the verifier ensures the identity of the holder, the integrity of the data, the freshness of the signature, and the intended audience.
```
